Iso Trade (working title).

Diary of developer - 20.07.23

This is a game prototype to learn how to manipulate 3D environment in a way that feels like isometric game.
Also working with OpenGL graphics API to learn how to properly work and render with 3D scenes.

Main idea is to master isometricity (if this is even a word). Second one is to learn how to build economic
simulation systems and how to design proper big software systems since games are a big software systems.

To build such a system we need to focus on some basic elements of interaction of representation of said game.
Firstly are: isometric grid to represent game area. Camera and camera work to represent visualisation of
said game world. Lastly elements of interaction from a player perspective - moving camera, clicking on objects,
handling input.

After that we have to populate game world with some entities. In this stage comes a few design choices that we
have to do. My idea is to have a tightly packed isometric grid on screen (tiles will be relatively small).
Game objects and entities will occupy many tiles at once in City View and in World View we will have entities
one-tile big with many world features such as lands and water.

So we have a some vision what to do in a next few days. We have to work on isometric tiles and
camera - how to render isotiles and how to do camera movement. Next step is to create a system
to interact with said tiles - clicking on them, changing their state in some way. This will
require some UI elements - let's make something like buttons or UI plane. Then we have to work
on City View and World View.

Diary of developer - 21.07.23

Render ideas - how to animate stuff? When we render static stuff like IsoTiles then moving camera around is good.
But how to change some render state? Should we change values inside object and push it to GPU? Does this work like that
every frame? Need more information about it.

Diary of developer - 22.07.23

Most concerning now is camera work - model view and projection matrices need to work perfectly to be able to
render stuff properly. There are two projections: orthogonal and perspective. Of course there are many
others, but we will focus on those two.

I can take whatever I did in longship-engine code in a camera work there! But first I need to check what
is going on there, since it's Jai code. I love Jai, and I plan this prototype game to finally be written in Jai.
I need to focus more on software design, not on languages. I kinda get a grasp of what is going on underneath.

After that we should create a isotile which will be rendered static and will be kind of our "world table" stuff.

Diary of developer - 25.07.23

Moved whole code to Jai, since having bloated libraries in toy language such as Python is really not optimal for me.
Basically I remove whole level of interpreter/JIT/whatever is going on under in Python to compiled, statically typed
language that compiles to my native platform which is Windows.

Right now I'm proceeding with everything I've learned so far to faciliated my knowledge and run this project
from ground-up to some satisfying me level.

I'll try to incorporate some C/C++ and Python code of course to help me, but core engine will be written in Jai.

